test on Saturday we have all of our
views come and see it it seems that
people start preparing for their IELTS
about three days before their IELTS
maybe two days or even the night before
so that's sort of what happens so we've
decided to run these master classes in
the week leading up to those big test
dates so I hope this is helpful for you
by the way it's good practice cool okay
that's connected to YouTube so that's
good
hello people there on YouTube I'm just
getting started
if you feel free to leave a comment in
the chat click like and don't forget to
subscribe to this okay let's have a look
here see if we've got everything
together
cool thanks for coming along my name is
J I'm one of the expert IELTS teachers
here at e to language welcome to the
master classes this is day two so they
will run for five days until Friday
leading up to the big exam which is
happening this Saturday it's not too
late to sign up to the master classes by
the way we still have the rest of today
we're going to do academic writing task
1 today we're going to do writing task 2
for both general and academic and we're
going to do reading tonight as well this
will happen tomorrow Thursday and Friday
so three classes a day do go ahead and
sign up we've got a $10 voucher discount
thing happening at the moment as well
just check the information in the
description below cool but in this class
we're going to do academic writing task
1 we're going to focus on bar graphs ok
let's have a look the mission today's
mission is to write a well-structured
relevant and high scoring task 1 but the
first thing we need to do is understand
the task so this is what we're going to
look at today let's just have a little
think about this because what you'll
need to do on test day is spend a minute
or even a couple of minutes or about 90
seconds preferably looking at that graph
on the pay
because you need to understand it fully
because if you don't comprehend the
whole thing your rankings going to be
inaccurate so a part of that twenty
minutes is actually going to be spent
analyzing this graph this is the one
we're going to do tonight you can see
the heading
it says comparison of hourly earnings of
uber and whoopsie where's my pen there
comparison of early hourly earnings of
uber and taxi drivers okay fine let's
look at the x-axis first I've got
capital cities Melbourne Sydney Canberra
Adelaide and Perth
and you can see the uber czar blue and
the taxis are let's just call this
orange fine and here on the y-axis we
can see the hourly rate of pay in
dollars and I can imagine these will be
Australian dollars it'll probably tell
us in the graph description so Melbourne
we can see Oba drivers get paid about
$25 an hour taxi drivers in Melbourne
get paid abouts whatever that is $17 50
in our Sydney uber drivers are up here
at about whatever that is 20 let's just
make that 23 so if this is this is 25
this is 17.5 let's just do this let's
just analyze this graph for a second
taxi drivers in Sydney let's say it's
about 21 dollars Canberra drivers get
paid I don't know what's that that must
be about 20 20 23 bucks
whoops this this has to be higher than
25 this would be 27 so this would be
about 23 this would be about 17 this
would be about 24 this would be about 19
say this would be about 22 sorry this is
why you have to analyze it because it's
hard to see 25 call okay so sorry what's
going on with linty slides all right
cool
what else can you see here let's just
look at those blue bars
what which city earns the most money for
uber drivers where would you want to be
driving uber in which city probably
Sydney or Perth I'd say and what about
taxi drivers where do they earn the most
money well probably looks like Perth and
if we look again at uber drivers in
which city do you earn the least money
as an uber driver well as far as I can
see it looks like Canberra and it's the
same thing with taxis as well okay fine
okay we've had a good look at this now
let's have a think about this okay the
first thing you need to think about and
this is really critical is that you need
to write at least 150 words and I don't
know if you know this but 23 percent of
candidates lose marks because their
writing is under the word length so this
is absolutely critical let's read the
description it says the bar graph
compares the hourly earnings of uber and
taxi drivers in Australia fine summarize
the information by selecting and
reporting the main features and make
comparisons where relevant let's think
about structure because we need to know
how to structure these okay so I've done
these IELTS tests twice now and what I
realized is there's no generic structure
that you can use you need to have a
couple of different structures up your
sleeve on test day depending on the
number of graphs that you see this is
really how you should structure
depending if you get one graph like the
one we just looked at or you get two
graphs or you even get more than two
graphs say three graphs depending on the
number of graphs you get you need to use
that particular structure let me show
you this one here because you may get a
mixed graph on test day for example you
may get a bar chart plus a line graph so
how would you possibly structure this
well if you get
mixed graph like this you won't want to
write a summary sentence then you'll
want to just describe the bar graph the
main features and then compare the data
within that then you'll describe the
line graph in a separate paragraph
describe the main features and compare
the data in that but for our structure
which is just a single bar graph we're
going to do it differently or we're just
going to do it like this we're going to
write a summary sentence we're going to
describe the main features then we're
going to compare the data okay
I'm going to make sure we write over 150
words fine so what will this look like
if we get an alt if we wrote what would
deserve an IELTS 9 on test day it'll
look like this
this is 158 words we have a summary we
have the main features and then we have
a paragraph the largest paragraph where
we compare data so let's begin I hope
you have printed out your PDF workbook
by the way if you're on YouTube just
grab a piece of paper and you can do
this for those of you who are eetu
language members I sent you a beautiful
PDF I hope you printed it so you can
actually look at that and you can write
this on that PDF like on test day okay
so let's do the summary first things
first you need to rewrite the
description in your own words to say the
same thing okay so the description says
the bar graph compares the hourly
earnings of uber and taxi drivers in
Australia I wrote this this bar chart
represents the hourly income earned in
australian capital cities for uber
drivers and taxi drivers so i've said
the exact same thing but just in
different words your turn I'll give you
two minutes to write your summary
sentence please
you
one more minute make sure you capture
the exact same idea but just in
different words
you
okay fabulous that's two minutes one of
the things you'll find in the IELTS is
because you're writing with a pencil you
need to formulate your sentences before
you write them you need to think of your
sentence before you start writing
because it's very different to a
computer on a computer you'll start
writing and then you'll go back space
and you'll delete something or you move
the cursor and you'll add something heat
you cannot do that in the IELTS because
you're writing with a pencil it makes it
far more difficult so you need to think
of your sentence and think okay that's
it that's the sentence and then write it
down go to the next one think of your
sentence then write it down so let's
have a look at this so I'm going to just
do some thinking out loud here and we're
going to think about how we could
rewrite this in other words to say the
exact same thing so the Biograph
compares the hourly earnings of uber and
taxi drivers in Australia I would say
something like the given bar chart will
compares as a I would just say shows
represents how much money Boober and
taxi drivers earn in Australia in five
capital cities okay that's not bad let
me try it again the given bar chart
illustrates represents shows how much
money per hour
uber and taxi drivers make in Australia
according to five capital cities or in
five capital cities perhaps okay it's
not bad it's not bad but that's what you
have to do you have to think your
sentence then write it it's a real trick
right now we move along to the main
features of this graph so this is where
we select and report the main features
that's the instruction so what we want
to do is this we want to look at this
graph here and we want to describe the
overall trend or the overall features in
just a single sentence okay
then we want to describe the main
features let me show you what I've done
here
I said overall uber drivers earn more
than taxi drivers so if I go back that's
the main trend well that's the main
feature that I see blue versus orange
uber beats taxis okay
overall uber drivers earn more than taxi
drivers now what I'm going to do is
describe the main features in two or
three sentences so I'm gonna say the
highest-paid uber drivers are in Sydney
and Perth while the lowest are in
Canberra taxi drivers in Perth earn more
than their taxi driving counterparts in
all other cities with Sydney coming
second and Canberra taxi drivers having
the lowest hourly earnings so if I go
back here what have I done well I've
said a sentence basically saying okay
uber drivers earn more than taxi drivers
fine you can see that in the graph here
and then I've said okay
uber drivers earn the most in Sydney and
Perth and they earn the least in
Canberra okay and then I wrote a
sentence about taxi drivers and I said
taxi drivers earn the most in Perth and
Sydney and they earn the least in
Canberra fine I've just described those
main features there your turn I'm going
to give you
maybe eight minutes is a bit too much
let's see I'll see how you're going at
six minutes your time starts now
you
just reading some comments on YouTube
here don't put any opinions in here
about
that taxis are having a tough
petition with uber it's not about that
so no opinions purely describing the
data that you see that's it you've got
about three minutes left
you
all right that's seven minutes just let
me check the chat here see how you're
going all right good I don't think we
need the eight full eight minutes there
so about seven minutes that's good nice
work nice work I hope you wrote some
nice and answers I think using that word
overall at the beginning of the
paragraph is a very good idea it signals
to the IELTS examiner what you're doing
you're describing the trends overall
okay good good good good good now
critically in this paragraph you should
not be getting into the y-axis you
should not be talking numbers and
statistics and percentages just yet
that's in the next paragraph which we'll
do now okay this is where we compare
data so what we're going to do because
it says here in this in the instructions
that you need to make comparisons so
we're gonna make comparisons and this is
going to be our largest paragraph of
about five to six sentences I'm just
going to quickly read it to you
uber drivers earn more than taxi drivers
in all cities with the gap being at
least in Perth where uber drivers earn
around $27 per hour compared to taxi
drivers on $25.00 gaps in all other
cities are around six to eight dollars
in favor of the uber drivers hourly
earnings in Melbourne and Adelaide are
similar around 25 dollars for uber and
18 dollars for taxi drivers in both
cities the lowest earners overall are
Canberra drivers for both uber and taxis
where their rates are twenty three
dollars and seventeen dollars
respectively what have I done
just before I get you to do it let's
have a little think about what you're
going to compare because again it's
about decision-making on test day and I
can tell you from experience the
decision-making on test day is a hell of
a lot harder than decision-making when
you're sitting at home feeling relaxed
and you've just had a cup of tea you're
under pressure you're under stress
you're probably hungry you may even need
to go to the bathroom you should really
be practicing writing these doing
practice tests when you're tired when
you're hungry
just to get that test experience because
that's what really happens on test day
it's very different to when you're
preparing all right cool let's have a
little think about comparisons here okay
so we could just do a comparison
sentence that uber drivers earn more
than taxi drivers we've done that that's
fine
now what we can do is we can do okay we
can focus on Melbourne we could do it
city by city we could compare uber
drivers to taxi drivers in Melbourne but
I don't think that would be a good way
to do it what we want to do is compare
uber drivers across all cities okay so
we might start by saying we're drivers
in Sydney and Perth and the most at
about $27 per hour they earn slightly
less in Melbourne around 25 and again
even less in Canberra and in Adelaide
and Canberra so you need to make
decisions about what you're going to
compare I'm gonna let you do it I'm
gonna give you a full eight minutes to
write this paragraph of about five to
six sentences your time starts now
you
so I'm just again looking at the YouTube
live chat make sure in this paragraph
where you're comparing data that you
actually write data I want to see
numbers I'm gonna see dollars okay you
know there's two ways you can do this
you can say that Sydney uber drivers
earned $27 for example you can name the
number from the y-axis or you can do a
little bit of mathematics and you can
say something like Melbourne uber
drivers earned approximately three
dollars less than Sydney uber drivers so
you can do the 28 minus 25 to get the
three dollars for example so two ways
choose it straight from the y-axis or do
a little bit of subtraction and find the
difference you can do that as well that
also works nicely
you
give you another two or three minutes
all right just let me have a quick look
at this chat here how's it looking guys
alpha Joelle okay you should be writing
in your PDFs I hope but let's have a
look at these ones generally uber
drivers in Australia make much more
money per hour
okay fine compared to taxi drivers
Sydney becomes the city Sydney is the
city where an uber driver will get the
most money per hour at more than $25 per
hour so that second per hour is
superfluous it's unnecessary however in
Canberra both uber and taxi drivers
earned the least money least amount of
money per hour at $23 for an uber driver
and about $17 for a taxi driver good
that's looking fine Alfred that's
looking good
well done I'm just gonna read one more
rupert drivers in Perth and Sydney had
the highest hourly earnings of about $27
just a little tip here I think the word
approximately is a more sophisticated
word than about so approximately $27
would be better similarly taxi drivers
had the highest rate of pay at $25 in
Perth , which was closely followed by
taxi drivers in Sydney at nearly $22 the
lowest hourly earnings were in Canberra
for uber and taxi drivers at close to
twenty three dollars and 17 dollars
respectively that's a really nice
paragraph well done that's looking good
I'll give you one more minute to finish
this one and then we'll have a look at
how to edit it
all right you should be done now you
should have written your summary
sentence the overall description of the
main trends or key features and then the
third larger paragraph where you make
comparisons and we use this structure
why because it will there was one graph
that we're looking at if we're looking
at two or three graphs we may have to
use a different structure altogether a
bit cool well done so here's mine I'm
just going to read it for you from
beginning to end hopefully you can hear
how clear it is so with the summary this
bar chart represents the hourly income
earned in australian capital cities for
uber drivers and taxi drivers main
features overall uber drivers earn more
than taxi drivers the highest paid uber
drivers are in Sydney and Perth while
the lowest are in Canberra taxi drivers
in Perth earn more than their taxi
driving counterparts in all other cities
with Sydney coming second in Canberra
taxi drivers having the lowest hourly
earnings now I move into the comparison
paragraph or I'll use data from the
y-axis uber drivers earn more than taxi
drivers in all cities with the gap being
leased in Perth where uber drivers earn
around $27 per hour compared to taxi
drivers on $25 gaps in all other cities
are around six to eight dollars in favor
of the uber drivers hourly earnings in
Melbourne and Adelaide are similar
around 25 dollars for uber and 18
dollars for taxi drivers in both cities
the lowest earners overall are Canberra
drivers for both uber and
sieze where their rates are $23 and $17
respectively that's 158 words what do I
do now well I need to proofread this
before I leave it and move on to my
essay so I'm gonna spend actually two
minutes proofreading because you'll be
surprised at the silly mistakes you can
leave on your page if you're not paying
attention
what are those silly mistakes well ask
yourself about grammar
are there any mistakes that you
regularly make do you have a problem
with subject verb agreement like the S
on the verb or the noun for example or
your verb tenses did you use simple past
and present perfect did you use the
correct tense at the correct at the
right time
what about articles and ah make sure you
go back and check those vocabulary you
don't need to use fancy vocabulary but
you need to use vocabulary accurately or
precisely you also need to avoid too
much repetition sometimes a synonym will
be useful you also need to check your
spelling
are there any typos meaning do your
sentences say what you want them to say
check that the meaning is right
punctuation spaces after full stops and
commas capital letters these are little
things but they're important most
importantly though do check your writing
to make sure it's over 150 words I'm
just going to give you 30 seconds now to
count your words to make sure you've
written more than 150 words
just for your interest I just counted to
150 I was imagining that I was counting
my words there and took me a minute and
20 seconds to count my words should you
do it on test day yeah I think you I
think you need to I think you need to
count your words I think the easiest way
to do it is counted in blocks of 50 so
you want 3 blocks of 50 so count from 1
to 50 mark on the page so you've done
one count to fifty again that's a
hundred count to fifty again
that's 150 anything over that leave it
that's fine at least you've written more
than 150 just for my interests put into
the chat Oh interesting very interesting
so I'm just looking at the chat joy all
right 153 words fine you've done well
Vashi had wrote 143 words so you would
have seen I don't know how many marks
the IELTS take off you if you write
under the word count but I'm beginning
to think that it's actually significant
it may be maybe half a point it might be
0.5 or even one whole band score if
you're under 150 words so be careful
it's just that the other thing is I
think you get one sheet of paper for
writing task 1 which is fine you can
write 150 words on that one sheet of
paper but for your essay be super
careful because you might finish both
sides of the piece of paper think that
you've written more than 250 words and
you haven't so you have to raise your
hand wait for somebody to bring you a
piece of paper that's frustrating great
unearned rate 159 words so you're all
safe there but I think that's a good
lesson for vash heed who wrote 143 words
okay here's a good one Vashti it's got a
great question Jane if I write under the
word count and I've written everything
and it's all structured beautifully what
do I do
can I write a summary sentence at the
end yes okay so let's say you've you've
written your summary your description
your comparison and you've written 143
words but you can't move anything around
so what are you
to do what you're going to do is this
you're going to add an additional
sentence at the end it's not a
conclusion it's just an overall summary
of the graph where you may say something
like in summary comma uber drivers out
earn taxi drivers by approximately five
dollars in all capital cities full stop
you've written you seven words you've
got to 150 it may not be great but at
least you've hit the word count which is
far more important cool be that a little
tip for you okay so why is this IELTS
nine this what we're looking at here is
what the IELTS examiner's refer to when
they're marking your writing okay this
is what they refer to when they're
marking your writing first one is called
task achievement and you can see here
this is IELTS nine this is how you get
an IELTS nine you do two things you
fully satisfy the requirements of the
task and you clearly present a fully
developed response what that means is
you've written the correct length 150
words or more you've answered the
question fully you've described the
graft fully in other words and it's a
fully developed response from beginning
to end that's why we have the summary
the description and the comparison okay
next thing that the IELTS examiner's
look at is called coherence and cohesion
what this refers to is that you can
create good paragraphs and cohesion
means logic structure the links between
ideas like then next while in addition
before after in comparison overall X
while y least most highest lowest lowest
this is cohesion so you also marked on
that you also marked on what they call
lexical research resource which in other
words means vocabulary and these are the
words that I used
in mine like counterparts the gap in
favor of respectively highest lowest the
least the most high then lower than more
than less than compared to around and
similar to I think the
is a is a is a better term there but
good vocabulary and wide range of
vocabulary the last one you're graded on
is grammar and two things within grammar
actually you're graded on range which
means you have a variety of grammar and
you're also graded on accuracy so yes
graph represents the graph represents if
it's two graphs represent for example
get your grammar right earned past tense
versus earn coming having been compared
are the lowest earners overall are
Canberra drivers for both uber and taxis
where their rates are twenty three
dollars and seventeen dollars
respectively they're referring to the
two taxis and uber drivers referring to
more than one there's a lot of
grammatical information in here and it
needs to be accurate let's just recap
what we've learned in this lesson so a
structure for a single bar graph is what
we just did where we wrote a summary
sentence we then describe the main
features then we compare the data in a
larger paragraph and this is what it
turned out to be 158 words cool guys if
you're on YouTube join the live classes
just go to e to language comm
we've got master classes running until
Friday because the big test is coming up
on Saturday so what's happening is 6:00
p.m. Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
Friday academic writing task 1 7:30 p.m.
this is Melbourne Sydney time by the way
so you might have to use Google 7:30
p.m. what are we doing we're doing IELTS
writing task 2 problem solution
discussion advantages/disadvantages
and opinion and the other one whatever
that is 9 p.m. we're doing general
writing task 1 and or reading depending
on the day so still plenty of time to
sign up and come and join these live
classes I think that's all I'm gonna
leave it now because I'm doing writing
task 2 by the way if you want to stick
around I'm doing writing task 2 at 7:30
p.m. melbourne time I'll see you soon
thanks for coming along I appreciate it
ah how do I turn this thing off
you